README.md, before:

# Grafana app plugin template

This template is a starting point for building an app plugin for Grafana.

## Done

 - hacked grafana docker-compose-base.yaml to use a custom grafana.ini from my own source directory
   added:
   ```
      GF_PATHS_CONFIG: /root/briancullinan-mycomputer-app/grafana.ini
      GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ENABLED: false
   ```

 - converted module.tsx from lazy to non lazy App components?

 - added grafana agent file grafana-agent.yaml

 - ran `sqlite3 grafana.db "VACUUM;"`

 - added `- ./grafana.db:/var/lib/grafana/grafana.db` to VOLUMES in docker config
 
## TODO

 - fix template variables for colors

 - make advanced scene builder more advanced by automatically arranging graphs based on description, i.e. grid, all on one row, two rows, list of graphs, etc

 - make expr available with an editable query box

 - make more settings available to ui and LLM

 - download javascript, or import url for panels
 


## What are Grafana app plugins?

App plugins can let you create a custom out-of-the-box monitoring experience by custom pages, nested data sources and panel plugins.

## Get started

### Backend

1. Update [Grafana plugin SDK for Go](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/key-concepts/backend-plugins/grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go) dependency to the latest minor version:

   ```bash
   go get -u github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go
   go mod tidy
   ```

2. Build backend plugin binaries for Linux, Windows and Darwin:

   ```bash
   mage -v
   ```

3. List all available Mage targets for additional commands:

   ```bash
   mage -l
   ```

### Frontend

1. Install dependencies

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Build plugin in development mode and run in watch mode

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. Build plugin in production mode

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. Run the tests (using Jest)

   ```bash
   # Runs the tests and watches for changes, requires git init first
   npm run test

   # Exits after running all the tests
   npm run test:ci
   ```

5. Spin up a Grafana instance and run the plugin inside it (using Docker)

   ```bash
   npm run server
   ```

6. Run the E2E tests (using Cypress)

   ```bash
   # Spins up a Grafana instance first that we tests against
   npm run server

   # Starts the tests
   npm run e2e
   ```

7. Run the linter

   ```bash
   npm run lint

   # or

   npm run lint:fix
   ```

# Distributing your plugin

When distributing a Grafana plugin either within the community or privately the plugin must be signed so the Grafana application can verify its authenticity. This can be done with the `@grafana/sign-plugin` package.

_Note: It's not necessary to sign a plugin during development. The docker development environment that is scaffolded with `@grafana/create-plugin` caters for running the plugin without a signature._

## Initial steps

Before signing a plugin please read the Grafana [plugin publishing and signing criteria](https://grafana.com/legal/plugins/#plugin-publishing-and-signing-criteria) documentation carefully.

`@grafana/create-plugin` has added the necessary commands and workflows to make signing and distributing a plugin via the grafana plugins catalog as straightforward as possible.

Before signing a plugin for the first time please consult the Grafana [plugin signature levels](https://grafana.com/legal/plugins/#what-are-the-different-classifications-of-plugins) documentation to understand the differences between the types of signature level.

1. Create a [Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/signup).
2. Make sure that the first part of the plugin ID matches the slug of your Grafana Cloud account.
   - _You can find the plugin ID in the `plugin.json` file inside your plugin directory. For example, if your account slug is `acmecorp`, you need to prefix the plugin ID with `acmecorp-`._
3. Create a Grafana Cloud API key with the `PluginPublisher` role.
4. Keep a record of this API key as it will be required for signing a plugin

## Signing a plugin

### Using Github actions release workflow

If the plugin is using the github actions supplied with `@grafana/create-plugin` signing a plugin is included out of the box. The [release workflow](./.github/workflows/release.yml) can prepare everything to make submitting your plugin to Grafana as easy as possible. Before being able to sign the plugin however a secret needs adding to the Github repository.

1. Please navigate to "settings > secrets > actions" within your repo to create secrets.
2. Click "New repository secret"
3. Name the secret "GRAFANA_API_KEY"
4. Paste your Grafana Cloud API key in the Secret field
5. Click "Add secret"

#### Push a version tag

To trigger the workflow we need to push a version tag to github. This can be achieved with the following steps:

1. Run `npm version <major|minor|patch>`
2. Run `git push origin main --follow-tags`

## Learn more

Below you can find source code for existing app plugins and other related documentation.

- [Basic app plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/master/examples/app-basic#readme)
- [`plugin.json` documentation](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/reference/plugin-jsonplugin-json)
- [Sign a plugin](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/publish-a-plugin/sign-a-plugin)

Commit message:

might be useful to pull prompt data off of dashboards

README.md, after:

# Grafana app plugin template

This template is a starting point for building an app plugin for Grafana.

## Done

 - hacked grafana docker-compose-base.yaml to use a custom grafana.ini from my own source directory
   added:
   ```
      GF_PATHS_CONFIG: /root/briancullinan-mycomputer-app/grafana.ini
      GF_AUTH_ANONYMOUS_ENABLED: false
   ```

 - converted module.tsx from lazy to non lazy App components?

 - added grafana agent file grafana-agent.yaml

 - ran `sqlite3 grafana.db "VACUUM;"`

 - added `- ./grafana.db:/var/lib/grafana/grafana.db` to VOLUMES in docker config
 
 - made expr available with an editable query box
 
 - made time range available to each graph output


## TODO

 - fix template variables for colors

 - make advanced scene builder more advanced by automatically arranging graphs based on description, i.e. grid, all on one row, two rows, list of graphs, etc

 - download javascript, or import url for panels

 - use templates to generate settings and queries for other source data types not just prometheus
 


## What are Grafana app plugins?

App plugins can let you create a custom out-of-the-box monitoring experience by custom pages, nested data sources and panel plugins.

## Get started

### Backend

1. Update [Grafana plugin SDK for Go](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/key-concepts/backend-plugins/grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go) dependency to the latest minor version:

   ```bash
   go get -u github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go
   go mod tidy
   ```

2. Build backend plugin binaries for Linux, Windows and Darwin:

   ```bash
   mage -v
   ```

3. List all available Mage targets for additional commands:

   ```bash
   mage -l
   ```

### Frontend

1. Install dependencies

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Build plugin in development mode and run in watch mode

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. Build plugin in production mode

   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. Run the tests (using Jest)

   ```bash
   # Runs the tests and watches for changes, requires git init first
   npm run test

   # Exits after running all the tests
   npm run test:ci
   ```

5. Spin up a Grafana instance and run the plugin inside it (using Docker)

   ```bash
   npm run server
   ```

6. Run the E2E tests (using Cypress)

   ```bash
   # Spins up a Grafana instance first that we tests against
   npm run server

   # Starts the tests
   npm run e2e
   ```

7. Run the linter

   ```bash
   npm run lint

   # or

   npm run lint:fix
   ```

# Distributing your plugin

When distributing a Grafana plugin either within the community or privately the plugin must be signed so the Grafana application can verify its authenticity. This can be done with the `@grafana/sign-plugin` package.

_Note: It's not necessary to sign a plugin during development. The docker development environment that is scaffolded with `@grafana/create-plugin` caters for running the plugin without a signature._

## Initial steps

Before signing a plugin please read the Grafana [plugin publishing and signing criteria](https://grafana.com/legal/plugins/#plugin-publishing-and-signing-criteria) documentation carefully.

`@grafana/create-plugin` has added the necessary commands and workflows to make signing and distributing a plugin via the grafana plugins catalog as straightforward as possible.

Before signing a plugin for the first time please consult the Grafana [plugin signature levels](https://grafana.com/legal/plugins/#what-are-the-different-classifications-of-plugins) documentation to understand the differences between the types of signature level.

1. Create a [Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/signup).
2. Make sure that the first part of the plugin ID matches the slug of your Grafana Cloud account.
   - _You can find the plugin ID in the `plugin.json` file inside your plugin directory. For example, if your account slug is `acmecorp`, you need to prefix the plugin ID with `acmecorp-`._
3. Create a Grafana Cloud API key with the `PluginPublisher` role.
4. Keep a record of this API key as it will be required for signing a plugin

## Signing a plugin

### Using Github actions release workflow

If the plugin is using the github actions supplied with `@grafana/create-plugin` signing a plugin is included out of the box. The [release workflow](./.github/workflows/release.yml) can prepare everything to make submitting your plugin to Grafana as easy as possible. Before being able to sign the plugin however a secret needs adding to the Github repository.

1. Please navigate to "settings > secrets > actions" within your repo to create secrets.
2. Click "New repository secret"
3. Name the secret "GRAFANA_API_KEY"
4. Paste your Grafana Cloud API key in the Secret field
5. Click "Add secret"

#### Push a version tag

To trigger the workflow we need to push a version tag to github. This can be achieved with the following steps:

1. Run `npm version <major|minor|patch>`
2. Run `git push origin main --follow-tags`

## Learn more

Below you can find source code for existing app plugins and other related documentation.

- [Basic app plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/master/examples/app-basic#readme)
- [`plugin.json` documentation](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/reference/plugin-jsonplugin-json)
- [Sign a plugin](https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/publish-a-plugin/sign-a-plugin)
